Blog for container restart policy (#51745)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2025-0X-XX-Per-Container-Restart-Policy.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.34: Finer-Grained Control Over Container Restarts"
date: 2025-0X-XX
draft: false
slug: kubernetes-v1-34-per-container-restart-policy
author: >
  [Yuan Wang](https://github.com/yuanwang04)
---

With the release of Kubernetes 1.34, we are introducing a new alpha feature
that gives you more granular control over container restarts within a Pod. This
feature, named **Container Restart Policy and Rules**, allows you to specify a
restart policy for each container individually, overriding the Pod's global
restart policy. In addition, it also allows you to conditionally restart
individual containers based on their exit codes. This feature is available
behind the alpha feature gate `ContainerRestartRules`.

This has been a long-requested feature, and we're excited to finally bring it
to you. Let's dive into how it works and how you can use it.

> ## The Problem with a Single Restart Policy

Author: Done

can exit with different codes to represent retriable and non-retriable errors.
With `restartPolicyRules`, the workload can be restarted in-place quickly, but
only when the error is retriable.

### Try-once init containers

Init containers are often used to perform initialization work for the main
container, such as setting up environments and credentials. Sometimes, you want
the main container to always be restarted, but you don't want to retry
initialization if it fails.

With a container-level `restartPolicy`, this is now possible. The init container
can be executed only once, and its failure would be considered a Pod failure. If
the initialization succeeds, the main container can be always restarted.

### Pods with multiple containers

For Pods that run multiple containers, you might have different restart
requirements for each container. Some containers might have a clear definition
of success and should only be restarted on failure. Others might need to be
always restarted.

This is now possible with a container-level `restartPolicy`, allowing individual
containers to have different restart policies.

> ## How to Use It

Author: Done

To use this new feature, you need to enable the `ContainerRestartRules` feature
gate on your Kubernetes cluster control-plane and worker nodes running
Kubernetes 1.34+. Once enabled, you can specify the `restartPolicy` and
`restartPolicyRules` fields in your container definitions.

Here are some examples:

### Example 1: Restarting on specific exit codes

> In this example, we want to restart the container if and only if it fails with a

Reviewer: Avoid "we" when an article only has 1 author. Can you reword for clarity?

retriable error, represented by exit code 42.

To achieve this, we have a container with `restartPolicy: Never`, and a restart
policy rule that tells Kubernetes to restart the container in-place if it exits
with code 42.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:

>   name: restart-on-exit-codes

Reviewer: nit: consider adding some annotations or labels, eg `kubernetes.io/description`. Just one or two is fine.

spec:
  restartPolicy: Never
  containers:
  - name: restart-on-exit-codes
    image: docker.io/library/busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'sleep 60 && exit 0']
    restartPolicy: Never     # Container restart policy must be specified if rules are specified
    restartPolicyRules:      # Only restart the container if it exits with code 42
    - action: Restart
      exitCodes:
        operator: In
        values: [42]
```

### Example 2: A try-once init container

In this example, we want a Pod that should always be restarted once the
initialization succeeds. However, the initialization should only be tried once.

To achieve this, we have a Pod with an `Always` restart policy. The `init-once`
init container will only try once. If it fails, the Pod will fail. This allows
the Pod to fail if the initialization failed, but also keep running once the
initialization succeeds.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:

>   name: fail-pod-if-init-fails

Reviewer: nit: consider adding some annotations or labels, eg `kubernetes.io/description`. Just one or two is fine.

spec:
  restartPolicy: Always
  initContainers:
  - name: init-once      # This init container will only try once. If it fails, the Pod will fail.
    image: docker.io/library/busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo "Failing initialization" && sleep 10 && exit 1']
    restartPolicy: Never
  containers:
  - name: main-container # This container will always be restarted once initialization succeeds.
    image: docker.io/library/busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'sleep 1800 && exit 0']
```

### Example 3: Containers with different restart policies

In this example, we have two containers with different restart requirements. One
should always be restarted, while the other should only be restarted on failure.

To achieve this, we use a different container-level `restartPolicy` on each of
the two containers.
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:

>   name: on-failure-pod

Reviewer: nit: consider adding some annotations or labels, eg `kubernetes.io/description`. Just one or two is fine.

spec:
  containers:
  - name: restart-on-failure
    image: docker.io/library/busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo "Not restarting after success" && sleep 10 && exit 0']
    restartPolicy: OnFailure
  - name: restart-always
    image: docker.io/library/busybox:1.28
    command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo "Always restarting" && sleep 1800 && exit 0']
    restartPolicy: Always
```

## Learn more

- Read the documentation for
  [container restart policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/pod-lifecycle/#container-restart-rules).
- Read the KEP for the
  [Container Restart Rules](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-node/5307-container-restart-policy)

## Roadmap

More actions and signals to restart Pods and containers are coming! Notably, we
are looking into adding support for restarting the entire Pod. Planning and
discussions on these features are in progress. Feel free to share feedback or
requests with the SIG Node community!

## We want your feedback!

> This is an alpha feature, and we'd love to hear your feedback. Please try it out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an alpha feature, and the Kubernetes project would love to hear your feedback.
Please try it out
```
